Transactions

A transaction symbolizes a unit of work performed within a database management system (or similar system) 
against a database, and treated in a coherent and reliable way independent of other transactions. 
A transaction generally represents any change in database. Transactions in a database environment have two main purposes:
- To provide reliable units of work that allow correct recovery from failures and keep a database consistent 
  even in cases of system failure, when execution stops (completely or partially) and many operations upon a database
  remain uncompleted, with unclear status.
- To provide isolation between programs accessing a database concurrently. If this isolation is not provided,
  the program's outcome are possibly erroneous.

ACID transaction
The acronym ACID stands for atomic, consistent, isolated and durable.
Atomic - Atomicity requires that each transaction be "all or nothing": if one part of the transaction fails,
	the entire transaction fails, and the database state is left unchanged.
Consistent - The consistency property ensures that any transaction will bring the database from one valid 
	state to another. Any data written to the database must be valid according to all defined rules, 
	including constraints, cascades, triggers, and any combination thereof.
Isolation - The isolation property ensures that the concurrent execution of transactions results in a system
	state that would be obtained if transactions were executed serially, i.e., one after the other.
	Providing isolation is the main goal of concurrency control.
Durability - Durability means that once a transaction has been committed, it will remain so, even in the event 
	of power loss, crashes, or errors.

Transaction log
A transaction log (also transaction journal, database log, binary log or audit trail) is a history of actions
executed by a database management system to guarantee ACID properties over crashes or hardware failures.
Physically, a log is a file listing changes to the database, stored in a stable storage format.